.. _fl6Sktto7Z:

=======================================
Tech Singularity
=======================================

The technological singularity — or simply the singularity — is a hypothetical
point in time at which technological growth becomes uncontrollable and
irreversible, resulting in unforeseeable changes to human civilization.
According to the most popular version of the singularity hypothesis, called
intelligence explosion, an up-gradable intelligent agent will eventually enter
a "runaway reaction" of self-improvement cycles, each new and more intelligent
generation appearing more and more rapidly, causing an "explosion" in
intelligence and resulting in a powerful super intelligence that qualitatively
far surpasses all human intelligence.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technological_singularity


Grist
=======================================

A "runaway reaction"...

What if, instead of a hyper-intelligent AI, the complexity of the tools and
systems being used outstrip the capacity of the people using them to understand
them? It could be that the documentation was never written and brain drain has
taken it's toll, or the **cough** incentive structure **cough** does not invest
in and/or reward/respect the deep thinking required to master the subject at
hand.

We've already seen multiple mission critical functions marked as DO NOT CHANGE
because the person who wrote it didn't document it and ain't around anymore; so
we have to wrap it in a facade to keep it working with the rest of the code
base. Basically a black box that no one knows what it does but(apparently) it's
important. Of course there are no tests so no one knows if it ever worked
correctly let alone if it's still working correctly... (see how the SAMBA team
knows more about the SMB/CIFS protocol that Microsoft...)

NASA is having to reverse engineer the F1 engines because the program was shut
down so quickly that no one wrote down how they did what they did. Of course
NASA understands how a liquid fueled gas generating rocket engine works, but
the don't know how the original engineers got the power/efficiency out of the
design that they did. So they can make a copy, but they can't improve it based
on the docs that they have (ala 40K...)

The Toyota Way was developed to overcome the specific challenges of building
cars in post-war Japan where they could not benefit from the massive economies
of scale that the "Big Three" enjoyed here; so they had to come up with another
strategy. So naturally as it passed through hands over time things like "no
excess inventory" devolved into "no inventory". The consequences of which we've
learned the hard way during the COVID unpleasantness.

We've also seen what "High Frequency Trading Algorithms" can do the the stock
markets. Huge volumes trade signals are generated by algorithms trying to trip
up other algorithms looking to create a window to get over on the market. So
now we have "flash crashes" and "circuit breakers" to limit/contain the damage
that they can do.

We have endless examples of bad training data being used to create "AI"
algorithms that lead to (at best) undesirable outcomes. 1) The wolf example, 2)
classifying humans as gorillas, 3) the example of running stuff between two
algorithms that ended up with them hiding info in the data set via
steganography.

Once your app has grown to a certain scale then poking an algorithm
(aka adjusting a weight on a value) could drown someone in an undesirable
amount of "engagement" or destabilize a country; roll the dice champ...

We already know that exposed self-learning algorithms can be exploited by bad
actors; see the MS chat bot that got hijacked...

We already know that chat bots who talk to chat bots can "go feral"; there's at
least one example where the bots in question created an unintelligible to the
human language.

The Qanon nonsense. Originally started on 4-chan as a prank that worked a lot
like an Alternative Reality Game (ARG) with the cryptic "q drops" as prompts
for the community to add their own stuff two. Then it started to expand into
the the real world: 1) that guy who blocked the highway with an armored
vehicle, 2) family members abducting their own kids, 3) assaulting people in
public (that supermarket incident), 4) murdering their own kids (the guy in
Mexico), 5) spreading into the "soccer mom" demographic via the "save the kids"
campaign.


A deceptively crude machine showing up at the right time can be the event that
turns the whole world on its head. It's reasonable to assume that it won't be
recognized or appreciated until well after its happened:


**The 1751 Machine that Made Everything**

- https://youtu.be/djB9oK6pkbA

I always assumed that it was the invention of the steam engine that fueled the
rapid growth in productivity and such.

Funnily enough [redacted] always called his lathe the "mother tool" because he
could use it to build the tools (eg a mill) needed to build the tools that he
needed to build the thing he was actually trying to build; always pointed out
that it could be an iterative process: build a simple lathe to build a simple
mill to build a better lathe to build a better mill (repeat as required)

